# Justify

A common exchange format for logical systems expressed in terms of inference rules.

This repo includes the [JSON Type Definition](https://jsontypedef.com) format specifications in `formats/*.jtd.json` files.

The specification is meant to include three formats:

- **System**: The full logical system description, including its syntax and logical relations.
- **Query**: A single query to a **System** file.
- **DerivationTree**: (NYI) Derivation trees corresponding to query results, possibly generated by the microKanren implementation in this project.

This project also is meant to contain basic tools:

- A **validator** that checks that the files are correct (WIP).
- An **inferencer** that takes a System and a Query on it and returns a DerivationTree with the query results (WIP, MVP ready that only outputs a human-readable representation).
- Various **generators** that turn other formats into Justify files
  - A Tcl DSL (WIP, MVP ready that generates a **System** file).
- Various **extractors** that turn those formats into other formats for external uses.
  - A LaTeX and KaTeX compatible TeX extractor (WIP, MVP ready that extracts from a **System** file).

The subproject folders have separate README and example files documenting their usage.

## Why?

Understanding how type systems work with your imagination or custom typecheckers is complex, time-consuming and error-prone.

Justify is meant to be open in order to ease integration with external tools such as theorem provers, code generators, structural editors, etc.

## Licensing

Unless otherwise specified, every file in this repository is under the BSD-3-Clause license. See the `LICENSE` file for details.

Code generated by `ajv-cli` and `jtd-codegen`, all of which lives in `formats/codegen/ts/*.{cjs,d.ts}` (minus `formats/codegen/ts/types.d.ts`), is only covered in the license where permissible, and on the public domain otherwise.

Code generated by this repo's codegen scripts (as specified in `scripts/*.sh`) is licensed under the same license as the rest of the repo where permissible, and on the public domain otherwise.

The `extractors/tex/latex-compat.sty` file is licensed under 0BSD (Zero-clause BSD license) in order to ease vendoring.
